
task -1 .. 08/03/21

1.Difference between HTTP1. 1 vs HTTP2..

HTTP was created by Tim Berners-Lee to allow communication between a server and a client. It is this communication that forms the basis of the Internet.
             
         
  HTTP1.1                                                                              

Version 1.1 was released in 1997 and became the Internet Standard.This version added many performance enhancements, such as keepalive connections, 
caching mechanisms, request pipelining, transfer encodings, and byte range requests.This new version was better and removed many of the ambiguities found in HTTP/1.0.


  HTTP2 

Released in February 2015 by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) focussed on improving the performance of HTTP.
 This article focuses on the major changes of this version in more detail.

The key differences HTTP/2 has to HTTP/1.x are as follows:

It is binary, instead of textual
It is fully multiplexed, instead of ordered and blocking
It can use one connection for parallelism
It uses header compression to reduce overhead
It allows Server Pushing to add responses proactively into the Browser cache.

2. HTTP version history...

Invention of the World Wide Web
HTTP/0.9 – The one-line protocol
HTTP/1.0 – Building extensibility
HTTP/1.1 – The standardized protocol
More than 15 years of extensions
HTTP/2 – A protocol for greater performance
Post-HTTP/2 evolution
HTTP/3 - HTTP over QUIC.


3.List 5 difference between Browser js console vs Node js....

In the browser, most of the time what you are doing is interacting with the DOM, or other Web Platform APIs like Cookies. 
Those do not exist in Node.js, of course. You don't have the document, window and all the other objects that are provided by the browser.

And in the browser, we don't have all the nice APIs that Node.js provides through its modules, like the filesystem access functionality.

Another big difference is that in Node.js you control the environment. 
Unless you are building an open source application that anyone can deploy anywhere, you know which version of Node.js you will run the application on. 
Compared to the browser environment, where you don't get the luxury to choose what browser your visitors will use, this is very convenient.
Since JavaScript moves so fast, but browsers can be a bit slow to upgrade, sometimes on the web you are stuck with using older JavaScript / ECMAScript releases.
Another difference is that Node.js uses the CommonJS module system, while in the browser we are starting to see the ES Modules standard being implemented.

4.what happens when you type a URL in the address bar in the browser..

You enter a URL into a web browser
The browser looks up the IP address for the domain name via DNS
The browser sends a HTTP request to the server
The server sends back a HTTP response
The browser begins rendering the HTML
The browser sends requests for additional objects embedded in HTML (images, css, JavaScript) and repeats steps 3-5.
Once the page is loaded, the browser sends further async requests as needed
